# K8s DNS

## How DNS is handled in K8s.

- You can use DNS mapping inside each pod in the ```/etc/hosts``` file.
- However, if you have a lot of pods, this can become cumbersome.
- It is better to have DNS mapping in one central location which is the K8s CoreDNS Server (addon during the Kubeadm).
  - CoreDNS is the nameserver in K8s cluster
    - You can view the pod with this: ```kubectl get pod -n kube-system```
    - There should be at least 2 replicas for redundancy.
  - It manages list of service names and their IP addresses
  - Kubelete points all pods to this nameserver
  - Kubelet does this by putting the nameserver in the ```/etc/resolv.conf``` file.

## How to access the service from a different Name Space?

- Remember, if you are in the same name space only the name of the service is sufficient.
- However, if you are in a different name space you must use the service and name space where that service is located:
  - ```<service>.<namespace>:port```
  - You can also use the Fully Qualified Domain Name (FQDN):
    - ```<service>.<namespace>.svc.cluster.local```
  - You don't have input the whole path because of the search functionality in ```resolve.conf```

### How does the SVC and the Pods have different Ranges?

- Kubeadm is responsible for setting the CIDR range for SVC. 
- You can check this an number of ways:
  - You can view the manifest of ```kube-apiserver.yaml``` in ```/etc/kubernetes/manifests``` directory.
  - You can view the default kubeadm flag with: ```kubeadm init --help``` and look for ```--service-cidr string``` flag to view the default setting.
  - You can view the defaults with ```kubeadm config print -init-defaults```

### How to change the default DNS CIDR block.

- When you change or add anything to the manifests directory, ```kubelet``` scans for configuration changes thus making those changes on the pods.
- To modify the default DNS CIDR block:
  - Update the ```kube-apiserver.yaml``` file in the ```/etc/kubernetes/manifests``` directory.
- **NOTE**:
  - If you do change the default DNS CIDR, remember the old services will not be updated with the new IP address. Only new services will be updated.