# K8s Install

## What we need to install:

On master and worker nodes:
1. Container runtime
2. Kubelet
3. Kube Proxy
4. K8s Manifest file

On master
1. API
2. Scheduler
3. Controller Manager
4. etcd

## Static Pods

- Master components need to be deployed as Pods
  - API Server
  - Controller Manager
  - Scheduler
  - etcd
- However, how do we install these pods?
  - Chicken and the egg issue...
- Answer, static pods
- Static pods are:
  - managed directly by the kubelet daemon
  - without a master
  - all is needed is the container runtime and kubelet
- How does this happen?
  - Kubelet can schedule pods on its own.
  - Kubelet watches a specific path on the node it is running on.
    - ```/etc/kubernetes/manifests```
  - Schedules pod when it finds a manifest
  - Kubelet, not the Controller Manager, watches static pods and restarts if they fail.
  - Static pods name are suffixed with the node hostname

# First steps when installing K8s Cluster

- Generate static pods manifests
- Put those pod in the ```/etc/kubernetes/manifests``` directory

# Securing Static Pods

- How to communicate securely?
  - Who talks to who?
    - API Server will talk with every component.
    - Every component and the API Server will need to have cert.
  - How?
    - Generate a self-signed CA cert for K8s
    - Sign all client and server certs with it
    - Certs are store in ```/etc/kubernetes/pki```
  - Server cert for API server endpoint
  - Client cert for Scheduler and Controller Manager for API server
  - Server cert for etcd and Kubelet
  - Client cert for API server for Kubelets and etcd
  - Admins also need client certs to use the API server which needs to be signed by the cluster CA
  - PKI certs for Authentication
- How to:
    1. Generate self-signed CA cert for whole K8 cluster ("cluster root CA")
    2. Sign all client and server certs with it

## Kubeadm

- Toolkit for bootstrapping K8 cluster install
- Provides "fast paths" for creating cluster
- Performs the actions needed to get a minimum viable cluster
- It care only about bootstrapping, not about provisioning machines
- Maintained by Kubernetes

### Installing Kubeadm
- Follow this [documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/production-environment/tools/kubeadm/install-kubeadm/)
- Disabling Swap
  - ```sudo swapoff -a```
- Opening ports for node communication
  - Must be configured on AWS