# K8s Namespaces

## What is a namespace?

- Organize resources in namespace
- Virtual cluster inside a cluster
- 4 namespaces per default
  - default
  - kube-node-lease
  - kube-public
  - kube-system

# Why use them?

1. Everything in one namespace (default)
   1. if we only used the default namespace, pretty soon that namespace will become too chaotic and will have no overview.
   2. conflicts with teams on the same application
2. Group resources by namespace
   1. Database will go with database namespace, monitoring will go with monitoring, etc.
3. Group my development stages along with resources
   1. Staging, dev, prod, etc
4. Blue/Green deployment versioning
   1. both blue and green productions use the same resources however they are on different versions
5. Access and resource limits on namespaces
   1. restrict teams to their own, isolated environment
   2. limit CPU, RAM, Storage per NS

- It's a logical way to use group resources/pods
- You can't access most resources from one NS to an other. To fix this, you must create a CM in each of the NS that points to the resources needed for that NS.
  - This also applies to secrets
- However, you can access service in another NS
- Components, which can't be created within a NS. These live globally in a cluster.
  - volume
  - node
  - list all resources bound to a NS:
    - ```kubectl api-resources --namespaced=false```
    - ```kubectl api-resources --namespaced=true```

## How to create namespaces?

1. With ```kubectl```
   1. ```kubectl create namespace <name_of_namespace>```
2. With namespace config file
   1. history of which namespaces you have created
   2. sits in the config directory